---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---
# Weekly Check-In
The Secure and Transparent Systems Laboratory welcomes us to the lab. Andy and I meet Professor Bates and two of the lab's PhD students that are working this summer, Jason Liu and Adil Inam.

The lab meeting consists of introduction to current projects of the lab and follows with Jason practicing for an upcoming presentation at the IEEE European Symposium on Security and Privacy.

# Current Tasks
* Get set up on lab server with virtual machines for development work.
* Get access to lab datasets. In particular make sure we can download and access the OpenStack dataset and StreamSpot dataset.
* Goal for the week is to get the DeepLog [[1]][ref1] model for anomaly detection setup and running and train it on a portion of the StreamSpot data.

# Journal
We began the week by setting up our development machines and accessing the lab’s shared project development server containing datasets that we will use going forward.

Next, we set out to become acquainted with some of the tools being used in current lab projects. This included getting the DeepLog  model running on the OpenStack and StreamSpot datasets. The OpenStack dataset contains benign user activity as well as log data from machines with known malicious behavior. The StreamSpot dataset contains procseed system log data in a graph format for analysis and is much larger than OpenStack.

When we tried to adapt DeepLog to the StreamSpot data, we ran into some challenges. While DeepLog easily accepts data structure like OpenStack, which consists of logging data compared, StreamSpots provenance graph representation of events needed adapting before sending to DeepLog. We also needed to find effective ways to scale down the size of the dataset we were training on while preserving it's distribution.

# References 
# References
[ref1]: https://www.cs.utah.edu/~lifeifei/papers/deeplog.pdf ("[1]") 
[[1]][ref1] Min Du, Feifei Li, Guineng Zheng, and Vivek Srikumar. 2017. DeepLog: Anomaly Detection and Diagnosis from System Logs through Deep Learning. In Proceedings of the 2017 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security (CCS '17).
