---
layout: post
title: Week 2
---
# Weekly Check-In

We present our preliminary results from running DeepLog on the StreamSpot dataset. As part of this, we reason that StreamSpot's performance does not compare easily to other datasets. Following our update on results, we discuss recent threat-detection publications with a specific focus on [ATLAS][1].

# Current Tasks
* Become familiar with ideas presented in [ATLAS][1]
* Install Kali Linux
* Experiment with Metasploit for generating attack scenarios
* Experiment with Meterpreter, a tool for remote shell execution
* Attempt reproduction of experiments discuseed in [ATLAS][1]

# Journal
Our main focus this week was to learn the details and tools discussed in the open-source project, [ATLAS][1]. We start by downloading the experiment's dataset and system to first replicate the results as presented by the author.

During our attempts to get the ATLAS system running, we encountered some difficulties. The preprocessing scripts were giving us different results depending on whether IPv6 addresses were included in the data. We were able to resolve this issue by cleaning up some parts of the data.

Next we set up virtual machines using VMWare running Windows 7 32-bit and Kali Linux. We will use these virtual machines to simulate attacks and generate log data for further analysis.

# References
[1]: <a href="Abdulellah Alsaheel, Yuhong Nan, Shiqing Ma, Le Yu, Gregory
Walkup, Z Berkay Celik, Xiangyu Zhang, and Dongyan Xu. ATLAS:
A sequence-based learning approach for attack investigation. In
USENIX Security Symposium, 2021.">https://www.usenix.org/conference/usenixsecurity21/presentation/alsaheel</a>
